docs/README_TRANSFER.md, before:

﻿# RenataAI - Transfer Summary

This file is a compact handoff for moving the project to another ChatGPT account.
It complements existing docs (docs/RENATA_STATUS.md, docs/RUNBOOK_SMOKE.md, docs/*).

## What this project is
Desktop assistant for Elite Dangerous with Spansh planners, route tools, and UX-focused UI.

## Attribution / Trademarks
RenataAI uses third-party services/APIs (Spansh, EDSM, Inara, EDTools) and the Elite Dangerous Journal format.
All trademarks and brand names belong to their respective owners.

## How to run
- GUI: `py main.py`
- Smoke (backend): `python tools/smoke_tests_beckendy.py`
- Smoke (journal): `python tools/smoke_tests_journal.py`

## Key docs (source of truth)
- `docs/RENATA_STATUS.md` - current status, flags, workflow
- `docs/RUNBOOK_SMOKE.md` - smoke procedures
- `docs/RENATA_OVERVIEW.md` - product overview
- `docs/RENATA_UX_BACKLOG.md` - UX backlog
- `docs/RENATA_ARCH.mmd` - architecture sketch

## Recent updates (C1-C3)
- Column Picker for result tables (flagged).
- Treeview renderer + sort + LP + header indicators (flagged).
- Treeview rollout to Ammonia/ELW/HMC/Exomastery/Riches.

## Where to look in code
- UI tabs: `gui/tabs/*`
- Spansh planners: `gui/tabs/spansh/*`, `logic/spansh_payloads.py`
- Settings: `gui/tabs/settings.py`
- Config: `config.py` (defaults).
- Renata stores all user settings in `%APPDATA%\\RenataAI\\user_settings.json`. Local config files next to the application are ignored.

## Flags and settings
Feature flags live in `config.py` and are surfaced in Settings when user-facing.
Follow rule: new feature => flag + default OFF + Settings (if user-facing).
Key flags:
- `features.tables.column_picker_enabled`
- `features.tables.treeview_enabled`
- `features.ui.results_context_menu`

## FREE Settings Profile
Settings in FREE mode show a short, safe list of options (5-7 max). Advanced/dev options are hidden.

## Gotchas
- Use `py` on Windows if `python` is not available.
- `user_settings.json` is local-only; do not commit.

## TTS (Piper, Windows-only)
- Default engine: `tts.engine=auto` (Piper if available, else pyttsx3).
- Configure paths in `user_settings.json`:
  - `tts.piper_bin` (e.g. `tools/piper/piper.exe` or a PATH bin)
  - `tts.piper_model_path` (e.g. `models/piper/pl_pl.onnx`)
  - `tts.piper_config_path` (e.g. `models/piper/pl_pl.json`)
- `tools/piper/` and `models/piper/` are local-only and gitignored.
- Download model/config (example):
  - `py tools/download_piper_model.py --model-url <URL.onnx> --config-url <URL.json> --out-dir models/piper`

### Licencje (TTS / Voice Pack)
- Piper TTS engine: MIT License (repozytorium rhasspy/piper).
- Model glosu PL: `pl_PL-gosia-medium.onnx` — licencja CC0 (public domain).
- Voice Pack (Piper + model) jest opcjonalny i dystrybuowany oddzielnie od glownego release.

Commit message:

docs: refresh release and compliance docs

docs/README_TRANSFER.md, after:

﻿# RenataAI - Transfer Summary

This file is a compact handoff for moving the project to another ChatGPT account.
It complements existing docs in docs/.

## What this project is
Desktop assistant for Elite Dangerous with Spansh planners, route tools, and UX-focused UI.

## Attribution / Trademarks
RenataAI uses third-party services/APIs (Spansh, EDSM, Inara, EDTools) and the Elite Dangerous Journal format.
All trademarks and brand names belong to their respective owners.

## How to run
- GUI: `py main.py`
- Smoke (backend): `python tools/smoke_tests_beckendy.py`
- Smoke (journal): `python tools/smoke_tests_journal.py`

## Key docs (source of truth)
- `docs/README.md` - what docs/ contains and what it is not
- `docs/RELEASE_CHECKLIST.md` - release checklist (manual + smoke)
- `docs/RELEASE_SANITY_CHECK.md` - ZIP clean gate
- `docs/COMPLIANCE_CHECKLIST.md` - compliance + licenses
- `docs/README_TRANSFER.md` - handoff summary (this file)

## Recent updates (0.9.1-preview)
- Settings saved in `%APPDATA%\\RenataAI\\user_settings.json` (EXE-safe).
- Voice Pack autodetect in APPDATA (tts.engine=auto).
- Trade station list on focus (EDSM), with loading/status hint.
- Portable mode starter included in ZIP (`start_renata_portable.bat` + `PORTABLE_MODE.txt`).

## Where to look in code
- UI tabs: `gui/tabs/*`
- Spansh planners: `gui/tabs/spansh/*`, `logic/spansh_payloads.py`
- Settings: `gui/tabs/settings.py`
- Config: `config.py` (defaults).
- Renata stores all user settings in `%APPDATA%\\RenataAI\\user_settings.json`. Local config files next to the application are ignored.

## Flags and settings
Feature flags live in `config.py` and are surfaced in Settings when user-facing.
Follow rule: new feature => flag + default OFF + Settings (if user-facing).
Key flags:
- `features.tables.column_picker_enabled`
- `features.tables.treeview_enabled`
- `features.ui.results_context_menu`

## FREE Settings Profile
Settings in FREE mode show a short, safe list of options (5-7 max). Advanced/dev options are hidden.

## Gotchas
- Use `py` on Windows if `python` is not available.
- `user_settings.json` is local-only; do not commit.

## TTS (Piper, Windows-only)
- Default engine: `tts.engine=auto` (Piper if available, else pyttsx3).
- Optional Voice Pack in APPDATA is auto-detected when `tts.engine=auto`.
- If manual paths are used, they live in `user_settings.json`:
  - `tts.piper_bin`, `tts.piper_model_path`, `tts.piper_config_path`

### Licencje (TTS / Voice Pack)
- Piper TTS engine: MIT License (repozytorium rhasspy/piper).
- Model glosu PL: `pl_PL-gosia-medium.onnx` — licencja CC0 (public domain).
- Voice Pack (Piper + model) jest opcjonalny i dystrybuowany oddzielnie od glownego release.
